How to build new NFL Dare Devil Ducks Season New


1. Go to the website http://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/xxxx/games.htm where xxxx is the NFL season (eg 2023) and create csv game file. Screen scrape (copy the relevant items) copy into a spreadsheet and pear it down. Export into a file  named 2023NFLSeasonSchedule.csv. Alternative website is https://fixturedownload.com/results/nfl-2025#google_vignette. Use the python file fixnewseasongames.py to fill in and clean up the file.

1.1 Use this https://www.cbssports.com/nfl/news/2026-nfl-schedule-dates-times-tv-streaming-matchups-for-all-272-games/ to get information on all games - tv information.

2. Add the bye teams. I used this url for 2023 https://www.footballdiehards.com/nfl-bye-weeks.cfm. Again screen scrape (copy the relevant items) copy into a spreadsheet a pear down. Create a file named 2023NFLSeasonbye.csv

3. Bring YYYYNFLSeasonGameWeeks up where YYYY is last years csv file. Make appropriate changes for new NFL season. This is a crucial file and is monotonous and tedious. The week starts on a Thursday (Yes Thursday) and ends on Tuesday.      

NFL in a nutshell: 32 teams, each play 17 games in regular season that spans 18 weeks. Each team gets a bye week - where players can rest. After the regular season, playoffs begin. 12 teams qualify for playoffs. Playoffs consists of wildcard week, divisional week, conference championships, a bye-week and ends with SuperBowl. So 18 weeks + 3 playoffs + Super Bowl = 22 weeks!

4. At this time make any changes to team names or locations via the admin screen.

5. DO A COMPLETE BACKUP OF THE DDD DATABASE. This way you can stop and re-add data if you make a mistake.  Use the following command: mysqldump --extended-insert=FALSE --complete-insert=TRUE -u tarryc -ptarryc ddd > ddd-dump-nflxxxx.sql. 

If you need to restore the backup you must do it from the linux command line. EG. mysql -u tarryc -p ddd < ddd-dump-nfl2015-bkup.sql

6. Go to the admin screen -> System scripts -> choose New Season Setup. Put appropriate file names into each input field and hit button.

7. Your new NFL season should now be up. Next Statistics and images.

8. Go to System Scripts under Admin and select “Run Game scripts”. Review all tables to see if populated.

9. You must import last seasons last TeamWeeklyRanking and rename it to be first before EG TeamWeekRank2025W1Before.csv. If you dont do this the stats that pop up will be broken. 

10. Add new images.

11. Get injury reports from https://www.rotowire.com/football/injury-report.php. Clean up a css file and review injury folder in sys directory for tools to create for import.

--------- Important python scripts for Daredevil Ducks -------

All python scripts can be found in the daredevilducks/pythonscripts directory

teamsstatusupdate.py - This script prompts the user for the team week ranking cvs file which is built independently from a website. This file must be be named like 'TeamWeekRank*.csv'. The user will also be prompted for db password. After importing team ranking file the resulting data will be inserted or updated into the ddd database.

Note on the 'TeamWeekRank*.csv' file. You will get 2 weeks of stats in one file. EG TeamWeekRank2025W2 would have end of week stats for week 1 and beginning of week stats for 2. At weekk 3 you would have end of week stats for week 2 and beggining of week  3. In this way the charts that use this data will reflect best data.


fixnewseasongames.py - This script reads in a number of files. A game file for the nfl season. The file was created by going to http://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/xxxx/games.htm where xxxx is the NFL season (eg 2023) and create csv game file (see #1 above). A file 'teamname.csv' with all  team names in a format the ddd app recognizes for cleaning up correcting names AND a tv name file currently named 'NFLTV2026.csv'. This will be used to add the correct tv media associated with every game. If you create a different name for the file make sure update the name in python script. See # 1.1. This script will create a file named "NFL-Schedule" + date that can be used to import into ddd database in the Admin Scripts for New Seasons.

playerinjuriesupdate.py - This script reads in weekly player injury file. See #11. It will require a number of files. A conversion file named "conversionfile.csv" to convert the team abbrev into teamid usefull to ddd database. A downloaded injury file named in the format of "nfl-injury*.csv". The script update the injury information on the ddd database.


prodset.py - This script is used to change all tokens 'DDV' and 'DMV' to have new timestamp applied to the token. This allows the web program to appear "changed" for web cache purposes. After running all link urls in desktop and mobile (if choosen) will have updated tokens.


getddd.py - This will dump the ddd database to file with drops, creates and inserts.

putddd.py - This will take a previously dumped ddd datbase and roll it back. 

runsql.py - This script run a sql file identified while running the script.




